Modeling gut microbial communities
======================================

This is a repository containing data and code for the analysis of human and mammalian
gut microbial communities. This repo was created by 6 undergraduate and graduate students
at Stanford University as part of the Bioe115/MI245 course on modeling microbial 
communities. It contains a standardized compilation of microbial sequence data and sample 
metadata from 5 published studies as well as the American gut project. This repo also 
contains newly generated glycoside hydrolase profiles for all samples that were imputed 
from the published 16s community data.

We decided to investigate how antibiotic use affectes gut community composition and 
function so elements of this repo are specifically targeted towards analyzing that data. 
However, this data is extremely dense and many of our function are highly generalized to
answer a multitude of questions. We encourage others to download and explore this dataset 
and code. 


### code
This folder contains all code (written in matlab and R) that was used to compile, analyze,
and visualize the data. Of particular importance is the Data_assembly_functions subfolder
which contains code that transforms the raw community and GH data into a manipulable 
dataset or matrix format. 

### figures
This folder contains several figures that were generated from our analysis

### processed_data
This folder contains processed community data and GH profiles. These are csv's that were 
generated by applying some of our functions in the Data_assembly_function subfolder of the
code folder

### processed_metadata
This folder contains metadata files from each study that have been reformatted to a 
standardized table. The table includes several hundred fields to include as much 
information from each study as possible. 

### raw_communitydata
This folder contains text files of the microbial community data from each study. For each
sample it lists the taxonomy of the microbial species present as well as the abundance.

### raw_gh_profiles
This folder contains text files of GH profiles (GH families and abundances) for all 
samples in each study

### raw_metadata
This folder contains the raw metadata for samples from each study

### workspaces
This is a collection of workspaces in Matlab and R that are provided to facilitate the
quick and easy loading of these massive datasets. These workspaces were all generated 
using functions provided in the code folder